# Vibrational Analysis of Structures

This repository contains a MATLAB program for performing vibrational analysis
of structures containing the following analysis methods for a sample finite elements model outputs generated by NASTRAN for a given structure:

1) Modal Expansion Method (damped forced and free vibrations)
2) Impedance Matrix Method (damped forced harmonic vibrations)
3) Craig-Bampton Method

## Requirements

MATLAB 2022 or later versions with the following toolbox:

* Parallel pool toolbox -> for running impedance matrix method
* Image processing toolbox -> for running Craig-Bampton method

## Dependencies

This program contains the following folders for running properly.

### Inputs folder

This folder contains the following files:

1) A picture of a finite elements meshed structure using NASTRAN
2) NASTRAN output4 format file for stiffness matrix ("K.dat")
3) NASTRAN output4 format file for mass matrix ("M.dat")
4) A MATLAB data file containing nodal parameters for the model ("nodes.mat")
5) A MATLAB data file containing an example of substructures properties for Craig-Bampton method to prevent repeated selection from the figure

### Library folder

This folder contains the classes and functions used for performing the analysis, including the followings:

#### Functions

1) initialize.m (function) -> Initialize parameters for running different analyses.
2) runAnalysis.m (function) -> Run specified analyses by creating a corresponding instance of the required class(es) and running their methods.

##### Classes

1) FiniteElementsModel.m (class) -> Generate FE model of the structure.
2) ModalExpansion.m (class) -> Performs vibrational analysis of the structure's FE model using modal expansion method.
3) ImpedanceMatrix.m (class) -> Performs vibrational analysis of the structure's FE model using impedance matrix method.
4) CraigBampton.m (function) ->
5) Plotting.m (class) -> Plot the results of each method and their comparisons, and generates 3D animation of structure's vibration modes.

## Deployment

Adjust the plotting of the results and the type of analysis to run in the "main.m", and if needed other analysis parameters in the "Library/initialize.m" file, then in the root folder run "main.m".
